[Music]
javascript let's go
good morning good afternoon good evening
america
tonight
bangers only folks
bangers only folks we got some
javascript to get into
hey what's going on everybody get on in
here get on in here hope you all are
doing well
hope you're fired up
hope you're ready
to get into
our first programming language we've
done markup languages now it's time for
our programming language
hey see a lot of readies i see a lot of
reddies you know how we do
i always like to start off with the
question of the day the question of the
day today
is would you rather
would you rather
one free domino's pizza that is the best
thing
you
have ever and will ever taste
or
would you rather a free domino's pizza
every month for the rest of your life
so i want to see
one or month one means you want the one
best thing you'll ever taste and will
ever taste
and month means a free pizza every month
let's see one or more wonder month
exactly vlog we go get
all right i'm seeing i've seen a good
mix here i've seen a good mix
got some
mumps we got some ones
you know what i
i'm still feeling i'm feeling the one on
this one i want
i i want to but then you peak right like
if you have the one best thing you'll
ever taste like and you're you're
younger like it's just it's just over
right
i don't know
but a free pizza each month would be
pretty dope
i'm gonna go
you know what i'm gonna switch out i'm
gonna go one free pizza a month i think
that that'll keep me you know
make it something special it comes every
month i'm gonna go with that i don't
want to peak this early i want to peak
this early
all right i don't want to have the best
thing ever
it tastes great i'm going to go with one
free pizza a month
hey
leon's trying to get around this
domino's band
it comes free i haven't paid for it
all right shout out domino's pizza
hope y'all are doing well all right
let's talk about tonight
got a lot to get into a lot to get into
folks
uh we're gonna talk
a little bit about what it's like to
learn javascript the trials the
tribulations the trough of sorrow
what it really takes to understand
javascript
then we're going to dive into like what
actually is programming
right we're gonna take a little bit of
time to talk through what is programming
what is it at its essence
we're gonna build a youtube background
picker
all those youtubers have really dope
backgrounds they got lights going we're
going to build an app that can help them
choose their next background
we're going to learn about variables and
types so if you did the uh the homework
you might be uh
you might already be there might already
know about these these these variables
and types things but if it's still not
clear we're going to go in that tonight
we're going to build a not so great
calculator it's going to be a very very
simple calculator we're going to build
that together
we're going to look at how to do
arithmetic math in javascript we're
going to work through conditional logic
we're going to build an agri-parent
simulator if we get if we have the time
and then we're going to build a
temperature converter together so a lot
to get through tonight we might have to
save the anchor pattern or the
temperature converter to next class
we're going to try and do the thing
tonight
all right
as always you know how i like to start
off
i like to start off with my questions so
if you got questions
maybe i got answers
how y'all doing
who's going to carry the boots and logs
we're going to carry the votes in the
lies so i'm going to say
good i am good yeah thank you for asking
can we turn in the layouts if we had if
we're a tad behind that's a great
question so
i think folks are all going to be in
different places right remember when i
asked you to do the layouts
i said to get the layouts done as close
as you can with the time you had
allotted some folks are going to have
more time some folks are going to have
less time so i want you to submit all
your layouts tonight as far as you got
them
right
remember i wasn't looking for pixel
perfection i said if you had a client
do you rather go to your client and say
i got all seven of the projects some of
the way there or i only got one of them
the way there right so turn in what you
got
as far as you got
and feel good with the work that you've
been able to do and i think this is a
really important question to start off
with because
for for most of us we had never touched
code before
right we had never touched code before
and in
10 nights
you gave me 10 nights think about where
you are in just 10 nights of code
right you gave me 10 nights where you
just came to class
you put in some work
right
think about where you are right now and
so a lot of people when this assignment
is due
right when this assignment's due they
don't feel great about where they got
with their layouts maybe they didn't get
as far as they want it maybe they're
missing one or two
but it's been 10
classes let that sink in for a second
10 nights think about how far you have
come in just
10 nights and you should be
proud
you should be i don't care how far you
got i don't care how good your layouts
look you should be damn proud of
yourself because you know why there are
thousands of other people that said they
wanted to learn how to code this year
and where the [__] they at i don't see
them
i'm looking i don't see them but you're
here
you showed up
you put in some of the work
you deserve to be proud of where you're
at and what you got done
i don't care how far along you got and
how care of the perfect they are
you are
miles ahead of all the people that said
you know what i want to make a
difference in my life this year i want
to make a positive change in my life i'm
going to learn how to code and they they
sat on their butts
they didn't put in any work
they didn't they didn't show up to class
they didn't turn in any homework they
didn't get any layouts done so you can't
hang your head low
when you're miles ahead of the thousands
and thousands of other people that said
they wanted to learn this [__] and then
did nothing
right
so i i i know this is a little weird
i want you to congratulate yourself
i want you to say your name
right
and then say that you're proud of
yourself for the work that you did for
the times that you showed up i want you
to say it out loud i don't care if
you're
i know some of you are like are
at starbucks some of you in the back of
panera bread i don't care i want you to
say your name and that you're proud of
yourself leon i'm proud of you you put
in a lot of work over these past couple
weeks
i want you to say it if you're here i
want you to say i want you literally say
it out loud because you deserve it
daddy yankee in the house what's up
i'm proud of you i'm proud of you too
daddy yankee
cool that's how i want to start tonight
i want to start tonight you should be
damn proud that you're here that you
showed up because there are thousands of
people that said the same [__] and they
ain't here no more
they ain't here no more it's just us
you should be proud
all right
tonight
there's a lot
right tonight there's a lot
and
what i want to kind of put out there is
that you should be proud of yourself and
tonight i want you to be sponges
i want you to be sponges
tonight is not the night to understand
tonight is not the night for things to
click and make sense tonight is not the
night for you to understand
javascript tonight is about me showing
you some dope stuff
right
i'm a dope person i do dope things right
so tonight is about me showing you some
cool stuff i want you to sit back and go
ah that's pretty cool i kind of get this
javascript thing and what it might be
able to do i don't care if you learn
syntax tonight i don't care if you
learn any javascript tonight i want you
to look at the stuff that we're able to
do tonight and go huh that's pretty cool
i'm excited
to spend the next couple weeks learning
that stuff you're not going to walk away
tonight a javascript
master right it's just not going to
happen
and so i want you to to be a sponge to
absorb to take it all in to ask some
good questions and then we're going to
have the next couple of weeks for all
this stuff to click i'm going to show
you a lot of stuff tonight this will not
be the only time we see this stuff we're
going to recover things over and over
again dab let's go hey how you doing
right
we're going to do this stuff over and
over again so tonight you're a sponge
you're absorbing you're turning on your
beyonce we're going to go down the
roller coaster together but we're going
to have
fun
cool
if you haven't checked in yet please go
ahead and check in you can always do
exclamation point check-in here in chat
or the tweet's always in the follow-on
materials channel in the going live
channel or if you just follow me on
twitter you'll see it go live an hour
before class
for folks that are new
my name is leon we are running a 30 week
software engineering bootcamp the goal
is to go from zero to employed for
absolutely free
all of our content is always put out
there for free never behind any paywalls
you can come learn how to code with the
best community to learn how to code live
online
hands down we're 25 000 strong in our
discord
exclamation point discord here in chat
or leonwell.com discord com get your
questions answered find folks that are
going to go through the struggle we call
it the trough of sorrow together
alrighty folks
thank you for checking in
submitting work
those layouts that we talked about right
get it get get all the layouts in you
can use codepen you can use glitch you
can use any of the things that you feel
comfortable with i want you to submit
your layouts where they are at
where they are at okay
where they're at
and like i said
hang your head high
i don't give a crap how far you got i
don't give a crap how good your layouts
look
every single person here including
myself can do better
we can all do better i don't care how
crispy you think your layouts look
you can do better
i'll get you one dab i'll get you one
you can do better so tonight when you're
submitting these stuff you keep your
head high
you're miles ahead of folks that said
they want to do this crap and ain't
doing it so submit what you got as far
as you got
and be proud of what the work that you
put in
then as you have time as you have the
privilege of time make them better you
can always come back to your work and
make it better whenever i have free time
and i want to put it and investing it
into learning i go back and i redo stuff
i add the stuff i tweak stuff you can do
the same
maybe you learn more flexbox over the
next couple of weeks and you come back
and you make them better
this submission will stay open
resubmit it
i don't care if it's a week from now a
month from now when you feel better
about it when you feel like you've done
more when you've done better come back
and resubmit
alrighty
exactly we go get
all right
occ hey thank you for the thousand bits
that's wild i appreciate that thank you
so much um and thank you everyone for
all the subs and the the
the primers where jeff bezos is sweating
right now
seeing their net worth just go down from
all the prime subs that come in if you
have amazon prime it's completely free
to sub
a lot of folks did that last time and i
really really appreciate it all the subs
go to nonprofit i work at during the day
so i appreciate y'all
all right
i
about a year a year or so ago uh was
talking to
uh one of our experts in residence at
brazilian coders cindersvt hey thank you
for the get the subs i appreciate you
thank you so much thank you for being
here uh their name is vons
and they're an expert in residence they
were a student that went through rc
then they joined wayfair as an engineer
then they joined salesforce as an
engineer and then they came back
uh and joined resilient coders as a
person in the classroom with us uh we we
don't we so a lot of a lot of boot camps
they do some shady [__] where like their
graduates get immediately hired back we
don't we don't do that you got to go
into the workforce and then come back i
see some folks know vaughn's they are
really the best
they are
all right
so i was talking to them about a year
ago
and they were relating
super lotta let me try that a little bit
uh they were relating
their
learning to code journey to their
martial arts background
right and
they practiced martial arts for a very
very long time
and the thing that they always said was
that the the way they pushed themselves
was always about half hard work
and then half believing they could do
the things that they wanted to do
and they actually related it to a baby
learning how to walk so this is not my
knowledge this is vans but i love it
it's the perfect ethos it's the perfect
mindset to go into learning javascript
because it really highlights a really
important point
when a baby is learning how to walk
they fall
they get up
they fall again
they get up they fall again they get up
they keep falling they keep getting back
up and eventually
they learn how to walk
and the beautiful thing
sometimes they poop themselves exactly
sometimes they poop themselves
but the beautiful thing is
you don't ever see a baby in the corner
doing this
i'm never going to learn how to walk
this is this this will never happen i
see all these adults walking around i'll
never be able to do that
i didn't eat my carrots today and since
i didn't eat my carrots i'm not gonna be
able to walk later
i i i i fell earlier and and i and i hit
my knee and now i'll never be able to
walk right you don't have nobody puts
baby in the corner right they're not in
the corner
having an existential crisis about
learning how to walk
they see everyone doing around them and
they know that with time they will learn
how to walk too
that's the mindset you need to have
going into javascript
javascript is going to be half hard work
like really hard work
and half just believing you can do it
and believing you can do it is actually
the harder part
so many folks will get one two three
classes into javascript and that's it
that they're packing it up they're going
home because after three classes they
don't feel like it's clicking for three
classes they don't feel like that
they're ever gonna be able to learn
javascript in the future ever
with time
you will
it's half hard work
it's half believing you can do it and
that believing you can do it is the hard
part
if you were learning japanese right if
you didn't already speak japanese and
you were trying to learn japanese for
the first time
and you were three classes in you
wouldn't be stressing out over the fact
that you were not fluent in that brand
new language
all right you wouldn't be sitting in a
corner crying yourself to sleep
feeling ashamed feeling bad feeling down
about yourself because after three
classes you weren't fluent in japanese
you weren't flying to you weren't flying
to japan to like live it up
right you know that it's going to take
you a long time you know it's going to
take a lot of hard work right you know
that eventually you could get there but
it's going to be half hard work going to
be half believing you can do it
i have seen students from every
walk
of life
you name it i've worked with a student
from that background
and i've seen all these different types
of people be successful
i do not care your background i do not
care how good you are at math i do not
care if you went to school i do not care
if you have a degree
you can learn
javascript
its half hard work
and its half believing you can do it and
that believing you can do it is the hard
part but i'm going to tell you right now
you can do it
you can
absolutely and we're going to do it
together
when you get stuck when you fall down
go on discord so we can pick you back up
when you trip and you poop yourself just
like the baby on the screen come to
discord so we can pick you back up
you're gonna fall over and over and over
again but you're going to keep getting
back up
and what i need for you to believe
in this moment is that it is possible
for you to learn
this
language it is possible for you to build
amazing things you have all the raw
materials you need and just like the
video i had you watch
right just like i had the video that i
had you watch before class when that
bell rings it's time to go to work
don't show up in the ring if you don't
think you can win because you can
time to put in work
it's time to push
it's time to fall it's time to get back
up and we'll get there
together right
cool
so we're talking about the
golden rule now but for the first time
we hit the last piece here right we
always said that our content goes in our
html
our style goes in our css but finally we
get to the behavior and interaction
piece right we're able to put our
behavior interaction in our javascript
right and we keep all these things
separate why
organization exactly it's all about
organization
right and tonight we're going to finally
see
we're going to finally see this behavior
and interaction come to life
so far we've covered html and css html
and css what we call markup languages
they're not true programming languages
right some people will nerd out on that
but tonight javascript is a fully
featured programming language we'll be
able to do amazing things with it and be
able to build and finally add that
behavior interaction
cool
the other beautiful thing about
javascript is that it is a beautiful
language that is a higher level language
it's something that we can understand as
humans and share our code with each
other and understand what's happening in
our programs we're gonna be able to
digest that tonight and build some cool
stuff
all right
in our html and css classes we saw ids
and classes they're important to bring
up again right now because we're gonna
use ids to target specific elements
in our html that we want to attach
or listen to for behaviors right so
we're going to see in our javascript
that we're going to target these ids to
target one specific thing in our code so
we can do cool stuff with it same thing
with classes we might be using classes a
little bit more now to target multiple
elements to add those behaviors to add
those
interactions to our applications so if
you haven't really used your ids or
classes that much get ready we're about
to see a lot of them
cool
let's talk about programming let's get
our fingers on the keyboard let's hit
some of that clackity clack uh we're all
here
to learn our first true programming
language that is javascript but before
we get there we got to actually
understand what the heck programming
actually is
so
the key rule here the thing that you
need to keep in mind above all
is that a computer will do what you tell
it to do
it's beautiful
we can tell computers to do amazing
things and they'll do them with
precision and speed that humans cannot
comprehend or do on their own
but at a fundamental level
a computer will do what you tell it to
do
so
a program
is simply a set of instructions that you
write to tell a computer what to do
if you ever said like what's a program
a program is just a set of instructions
keep that idea of a set of instructions
in your brain so if computers
just do what we tell them to do
well a program is just those
instructions that we write to tell a
computer what to do
okay
and if a program is a set of
instructions well then programming
is the task of writing those
instructions in a language that the
computer can understand
okay
now the wonderful thing is we are going
to learn javascript tonight
javascript is a beautiful language that
humans can understand
right that i can share my javascript
code with you you can look at it and
quickly realize maybe what's happening
in the program
and we're able to share it with other
engineers that can quickly look at it
and understand what's going on
but that javascript is actually not
something that a computer truly
understands it's too high level
that javascript has to be broken down
all the way into something that the
computer can actually understand so
tonight we're going to be focusing a lot
on the higher level javascript that we
can exchange with each other to
understand what's going on in our sets
of instructions we're writing for the
computer but we're also going to spend a
few moments tonight to talk about what's
happening deep down that level at the
lower level at the deeper we call it
closer to the metal right the stuff that
the computer can actually really
understand
cool
so
i need you to give me some
artistic license here
some uh
some educational freedom as we might say
uh give me the
chance to present an example that's not
100 true or correct but it's something
that we can hopefully latch on to to
better understand this idea of low level
versus high level and i appreciate all
the nun spam in chat
oh that's beautiful it's just nuns all
the way down
thank you everyone
uh so if you're subbed you get the
emotes if you got a gift that sub which
a lot of people are community love to do
you have the emotes if you use your
prime for free you have the emotes but
if you have channel uh channel points
you can unlock the
emotes with your channel points as well
love all the nuns fan that's hilarious
all right so give me some freedom here
now
here is a very
simple
circuit and i'm going to draw
we're going to have a wire coming out
this side
we're going to connect it to a battery
and then a wire that comes up this way
this is a closed circuit with a battery
and a light bulb and so
this light bulb
would be
turned on
right so right now the circuit is closed
and the light is on
[Music]
a thank you so much for
being jakkub thank you so much for the
uh five get themselves i appreciate you
it's so loud
i think the um the alert sounds are back
to what they were before hold on one
second let's uh
let's make sure that it's not not too
wild
one second
i can fix it
all right there we go
i i cut it in half
so hopefully it's not too wild
all right
that should work
there we go i left you in the dark to
fix it we're good
alrighty
so here we have a circuit
right we have a circuit
and
we have a circuit and right now it's a
completely closed circuit so the light
is on
right the light is on let's go ahead and
slightly modify the circuit so that
there is a switch
and so
we'll have a completely closed circuit
on the right with a battery
and then over here
we have a switch
so right now
if slip a brick
hey thank you for the 10 gift itself
that's so wild thank you for being here
vip
slip on
a stick brick all right that's wild
thank you for being here thank you for
the gift of subs
it's still loud
it's better but still loud all right
we'll fix it during the break
to go a bit more all right i got you
thank you for the gift it subs
all right
right now we have a circuit
with a
switch on it
and right now the switch is open so the
light is not on
right
if i was to close the circuit
our light
would turn on
right
the light would turn on
so
we now have a circuit that we could
represent
one where the light is on
and one where the light is off
if i want it to repre represent this
circuit and the most basic form i see a
lot of folks kind of slowly getting here
where we're going is we could represent
it with like a singular character
maybe if the circuit was
off or open we could represent it with a
zero
and if the circuit was closed maybe we
could represent it with a one
right and then we can start to represent
our circuits as either
open
or closed or in this case on
or off
right on or off
and this beautiful base level kind of
understanding is the fundamental aspect
that we can use to build up to our
modern computers and let me show you how
so we have a very simple circuit here
but let's add another switch
let's go ahead and have a switch on both
sides
there we go
if i wanted to represent this switch
with the logic that we just presented
right
what number would i use to represent
this
circuit
what could i write throw it in chat for
me please
yeah we can represent this as
zero zero
right that both the switches are open
now something really cool let's say i
closed
this circuit here
how can i represent this circuit chat
yeah let's let's say one zero
right
now our circuit is 1 0 we're saying that
the first switch is closed or and then
the second one is still open and then
how can i represent this circuit right
here
how could i represent this new circuit
yeah i could represent it with one one
dope
so now i have a circuit that i'm
representing with one one
and something very special just happened
by saying 1-1
we just built up
the most simplest
bit
of logic
when i say 1-1
what logic am i actually representing
very very simple bit of logic when i say
one one i'm saying what
i'm saying
this
blank
yeah i'm saying and i'm saying this
switch
and this switch
are both closed
so at its very basic form just from this
idea of on and off
and just with a very simple circuit
i could then demonstrate this idea of
and and i have the very simplest bit of
logic already
we start to build these up and we call
them logic gates
and at a very fundamental level we can
build up from these zeros and ones these
on and off to very simple logic to
slightly larger bits of logic right we
throw in things like a arithmetic logic
unit which helps us do calculations we
throw in a program counter and we throw
in a little bit of memory and we have a
computer right so from this very base
logic we can build up to a language that
the computer can at least understand at
this very raw level the zeros and ones
this very basic logic
but we as humans
do not want to be talking in zeros and
ones
we do not want to be talking in these
like very primitive bits of logic we
want to be able to talk in a language
that makes sense so while the computer
may understand this
we build up on top of that logic and we
go higher and higher until we're writing
out something that's human readable that
we can understand as humans and not be
talking nonsense in zeros and ones and
so that's where javascript comes from
javascript is a language that humans can
understand that looks like it's written
in normal english but eventually can be
broken all the way down into this very
simple logic these zeros and ones that
the computer can realistically
understand
okay
now
the cool thing is um you can really nerd
out over this stuff there is this
wonderful book by chris pretzel called
code the hidden language of computing i
think it's called uh and chris pretzel
walks through this in amazing detail and
they start all the way back with how
ships
used to communicate they want to know
how like way back in the day different
ships across the horizon would
communicate with each other
way before morris code yeah they would
use flags they would wave different
flags and they could build out a whole
communication system off of waving
different flags
and then those flags eventually when it
became nighttime they would switch to
lights and they would start flashing
different bits of light
at night so folks in the distance could
see
and those lights turned into morris code
and then from morris code we got higher
and higher levels all the way up to
modern computing so if this stuff is
really cool to you if you feel like you
want to nerd out on this i really
recommend chris pretzel's book code the
hidden language
i'll put it on discord after
after class but this idea of base low
level computing is how computers really
work and we're just lucky that we're not
here 30 40 50 years ago we don't have to
write this anymore we we can write
high-level languages javascript that
make way more sense and know underneath
the hood they're being broken down into
stuff like this
cool
now
i gave you some homework
the homework was to watch independence
day
okay
if you didn't watch independence day
it's a wrap this whole rest of this
class the whole rest of the cohort will
all be
independence day themed
it's just it's just over i'm joking
we're going to use independence day to
highlight a very specific story that i
think is important for us to understand
before we move into
actual javascript all right so
if you watched independence day
right
these these alien ships come to earth
right these alien ships come to earth
and when the alien ships come to earth
something weird happens we had actually
had a crashed alien ship that was the
roswell crash we had a crashed alien
ship it was in area 51
and when the
alien ships came to earth
what happened to the ship that we had in
area 51.
yeah you lack you got that yep
it turned on
right when the other ships came close
the ship we had in area 51 like turned
on the power came on its shields came on
it activated and so this is
a really interesting bit of information
that means somehow there's like
proximity and maybe like their
communication and their power systems
are like intertwined like they're able
to like communicate to other ships
they're able to like send power to those
other ships and so we know that they're
connected in some way right that when
the other ships came close this ship
that we had got power it turned on it
had its shields right and so that leads
like something pretty interesting that
could happen that
that the the communication the power
systems are all kind of connected all
right cool
now uh there was a ship in the usa
that we immediately tried to like nuke
out of orbit and we we hit it with our
nukes right
and
nothing happened why did nothing happen
when we hit it with our nukes the alien
ship that was over the u.s or one of
them that was over the u.s
yeah it had shields and so the shields
we hit it with the nuke and it just like
poof popped off like nothing happened
the shields were too great
and so we knew
right we knew that if we wanted to like
save the world we're going to bring down
those force fields those shields so what
did jeff goldblum do
to save the world
what did jeff goldblum do to save the
world
yeah
they wrote a computer virus
that they then injected into the alien
mothership and the cool thing is once we
put the virus into the alien mothership
since we know like that communication
power system is intertwined
as soon as we injected the virus into
the alien mothership all the other alien
ships their their their
shields went down and we were able to
hit them with a nuke save the world
america
right and so
how
how was jeff goldblum
able to
write
a program
that ran on an alien mothership so we
could bring down their shields hit them
with the nuke save the world america
how is that possible
something a lot of people say like
javascript no we're not there yet i i
don't think the alien ships were using
javascript maybe maybe
out there in galaxy far far away uh
they're still writing javascript um
no they we did something else
we we have to assume
right we have to assume even though
these are advanced alien civilizations
we have to uh assume that there are some
universal constants in this world or in
this universe i should say
right we should assume that like math is
a universal constant we should assume
like physics is a universal constant and
maybe this idea
of on and off
are also
universal constants so if on and off is
a universal constant right
and even though they are an alien
civilization from far far away
their computing systems still have to
boil down
to zeros and ones
to binary to on and off it's universal
right
and so jeff goldblum what they did is
they did something called reverse
engineering they took their code and
they reduced it all the way down to the
zeros and ones
and they built it all the way back up to
a virus that they could inject into the
alien mothership and i know this sounds
like really far-fetched and it's it it
is because of the amount of time that
they had to do it but the act of doing
it is not too out there reverse
engineering is a skill set there are
some people in this world that are very
very good at it they can do it very very
quickly uh one of my favorite youtubers
their name is scanlime and what they do
is they people like send them stuff and
they reverse engineer anything you send
them and like get it to do weird stuff
right
the very first time i heard about
reverse well not the first time but the
first time i was really excited about it
uh there's this talk that i'll put on
discord afterwards uh of this woman that
reverse engineers tamagotchis
tamagotchis are like little virtual pets
and they reverse engineer all the way
back to like the machine level code a
little bit above those zeros and ones
and then they were able to build back up
to make the tamagotchis do really cool
stuff
right and it like blew i remember
watching it talk my mind just being
blown i was like you could do that
people are people are saying that's my
middle school years yeah mine too i
still got my tamagotchis
oh look at that boom
it's not a tamagotchi that is a pokemon
pikachu two
and uh
has a little pedometer in it yeah i know
you're jealous it's okay
and back in the day i was all about my
my virtual pets i'd be walking around
school bam having the you know you just
had it on your backpack you had to make
sure everybody saw boom look at it right
there i had the
the baby nano that was the hot one for a
minute i had the uh the digimon that was
a hot one for a second i had the uh
the salem gigapet
bam in the face right there walking down
the hall yeah i was i was cool it's all
right
anyway back to our story
the idea of having this alien
civilization
breaking it all the way back down to the
zeros and ones and all the way back up
that's a true story that could really
happen right we could do that
and so around this way
we like to mark this
momentous occasion
right
we need to mark this momentum the
momentous occasion we have a saying
around here
for for this legendary event in human
history
uh if you've been around these parts
before do you know what we call this
epic moment in human history
the 4th of july it's not 4th of july
yeah we call this binary upload
boom
right
we wrote binary we upload it it went
boom
right because we nuked them america
and what i want you to remember here is
that as you're writing javascript
you are sitting on the shoulders of
giants folks that have come before us to
write the ones and zeroes the zeros and
ones to write the machine code to write
the assembly that sits on top of that to
write the code that interfaces with the
assembly and c to then use that c to
build up to the languages that we use
today like javascript right and so when
you're writing javascript and you can
understand it like a human know that it
is breaking down all the way to these
zeros and ones and we don't have
switches anymore we don't have like
physical like closing switches we have
transistors and those transistors are
turning on and off and so as you're
writing javascript you have this immense
amount of power
right the power to to bring down
shields the power to to destroy alien
civilizations
and we just have a few things for you to
learn to wield that power correctly and
so tonight
we learn javascript
let's get some
alrighty
so
javascript
is a language
that we are going to use to tell
the computer
what to do
i
don't need you to get it tonight
thank you
i don't need you to get it tonight i
need you to sit back relax enjoy
soak up
what we're about to cover like a sponge
see the cool stuff that we can
eventually start to do
right
and
take that excitement into our next few
classes where we go deep and all these
topics start to make sense but tonight's
not the night tonight for me to show you
some cool stuff to do some dope things
together and to to to hopefully be
inspired for what's to come
all right
when we wrote html in css
we had a specific
syntax
right we had a specific syntax we had
these rules that we had to follow when
writing our html and css we had carrots
we had
curly braces all these things that we
had to follow
for
it to work well javascript has its own
specific syntax as well
all right and so over the next couple
classes we're going to introduce more
and more
right
of this
syntax
right we're going to introduce more and
more of this syntax
and
as we go through it
as we go through it we're going to pick
up a lot of more characters and i bring
this up right now
because as you start to write more
javascript your fingers are going to
stretch
they're going to expand
right they're going to they're gonna
expand
you're gonna be move using keys that you
haven't really ever used before and so
this is another gentle reminder to take
care of yourself
uh because a lot of people really do
burn out their hands
when they first start getting into their
first real programming languages because
i'm going to show you right now
all of the characters that actually show
up when you're writing
javascript okay there's a lot of special
characters that we're going to use and i
want to make sure that everyone
understands the different characters
what they are how we're going to use
them and so
let's go ahead and just take a quick
second to walk through all the different
characters
and see them so
open up my inspector here
i'm going to open up my console just so
i can type here and show you some stuff
all right i'm going to look at my
keyboard here and i'm going to walk
through the different things that i see
so starting off
we have our lovely square brackets
we're going to use these square brackets
a lot especially when it comes to using
things like arrays so these square
brackets are really important to kind of
recognize okay
next we have some people call these
curly braces they're technically called
figure brackets
but i call them curly braces because
that's the dope thing to do and i'm a
dope person so i'm going to call them
curly braces
next we have
our less than and greater sign with
with our
[Music]
javascript where they're not really like
brackets
right they're they're they're not
they're not the things that we're using
to like encapsulate what you did with
html
we're using these for logic
less than or greater than right so we're
going to start seeing these be used when
we get to comparison when we get to our
conditional logic later today right
we'll be using them for less than or
greater than things like that
we're still going to have our commas and
ticks they have places and sorry and
dots we have our they have their place
in javascript
we have a forward slash which we'll see
uh when we get to things like division
our forward slash will be used for
division
and we also have
our question mark uh this question mark
in javascript actually gets a name it's
called a ternary selector don't worry
about that for right now i'm just
showing that it'll come up
and some people might call it a ternary
but we'll get there
we're gonna have our colons and our
semicolons and we're gonna use these
quite often colon and then semicolon
we're gonna have our singular quotes and
our double quotes and we're also gonna
have ticks which are with the tilde key
right that'll all kind of serve similar
purposes
we're going to have backslashes that
you'll see come up and then really
important on that key right above your
enter key is the pipe character
and this double whenever you have these
two pipe characters next to each other
that is how we represent the logic of or
right now we say or so whenever you see
the double pipe character that's or
we're going to have hyphens and they're
going to be used for subtraction right
and then we're going to have our
parentheses
now for some reason i don't know when i
picked up this habit i call parentheses
parens i don't know where it comes from
so if you ever hear me talking about
parens i i just mean parentheses i've
tried to wipe it from my vocabulary it
just doesn't want to get out of there so
you ever hear me say parens i mean
parentheses
we're going to have our asterisk for
multiplication
and then double ampersand is another bit
of logic for and right double pipe
characters or double ampersand is and so
like this and that
we have a percent sign but we don't call
the percent sign in most programming
languages we call it modulus
and this percent sign or modulus
is how we get remainders
right it's how we get the remainder so
like when you divide a number by another
number whatever's left over that's the
remainder
that's what modulus is for
and don't worry we're going to see all
these come up again i just wanted to
show you them before we get started
we're going to see the dollar sign come
up but most people refer to this as
bling
so whenever i say the word bling i
actually mean the dollar sign that you
see there
uh octothorpes are still going to come
up they're not hashtags they're not
pound signs they're octothorpes and then
one that comes up a lot
because it actually means not in
javascript is the bang
uh
it's not an exclamation point it is bang
so if you ever heard me say like bang
discord bang slides what i'm actually
saying is exclamation point discord
exclamation point slides right and so
instead of calling an exhibition point
we call it a bang
cool
we got our plus sign for addition we got
our equal sign uh for assignment
and comparison when we get a little bit
further
and then we also have a till day which
will come into effect as well so if you
notice all these characters are on the
edge of your fans right they're things
you'll be reaching for so please
watch the dr levi video get your hands
moving stretching take your breaks when
we take a break together actually take
your break
right make sure that you're giving a
good stretch you're shaking out your
hands that you can
be in this for the long haul for the
long run
all right now
speaking of breaks
before we jump into our youtube
background picker and see javascript
alive for the first time let's take our
break we'll take a little bit early
today and take our five minutes if
you're new around here we like to be
healthy we like to make sure that we're
in this for the long haul
we take five minute breaks at the top of
the hour if you're able please get up
move around stretch if you're watching
this on youtube before you take your
break on youtube go ahead and give us a
thumbs up if you aren't subscribed go
ahead and subscribe all right and let's
go ahead and take our five minute break
alrighty five minutes on the clock
bring the tunes up and i'll give you all
what you really want
is bob
five
yo
yeah dmv it's all javascript today we're
in
a minute left folks
share this stretching video it's dr levi
the fitness doctor it's on uh discord
let's try it again
what kind of domino's pizza should i
order tonight oh
the hard question
playing with spinach way to go
what's hydration today it's just uh some
nice tea
vanilla chai that i normally go with
oh with some with some jalapenos too
that's the move
why domino's because they're the best
pizza
all right folks come on back come on
back
should we code along not tonight civic
not tonight civic
place tonight to enjoy to ask good
questions
not to code along
all right come on back folks
chill the music here
alrighty
so uh today we're going to look at some
code and like i said before the break
you're a sponge
you're not trying to get the the perfect
meaning you're not trying to
even really understand what's going on
it's just to look and go oh that's
pretty cool and then in a few more
classes you'll be able to do it all
together
all right
so i'm going to go ahead and open up our
starter code for this evening
if you're new and you want the starter
code we always share that on our discord
before class
so you can do exclamation point discord
it's just leon noel.com
discord you agree to the rules and then
there's this follow-along materials
channel that'll always have everything
that you that you need
yeah i didn't change the sound alerts
i'm gonna keep them loud
all right
rolling loud
gonna be a murder in miami
if they play it rolling loud
oh no did i move my folder one second
i i like slip clicked and i don't know
where i moved the folder
oh there you go all right it's on my
desktop
there we go all right cool
all right
so here in my 12 class 12 folder right
in my class 12 folder we have this
background picker and i'm going to open
up the html
and i'm also going to open up the
javascript for the first time folks we
got javascript files
hey
sledge is up to you everybody's
different join the catch-up crew on
discord though
all right first class we got some
javascript now remember
your sponge
let's get lost together let's have a
good time let's let's get lost in the
code and see where we wind up right
all right i'm gonna go ahead and open
this html
in the browser
and here we go we got a lovely
youtube
background
picker
okay
if you're a youtuber you need a dope
background
right you need to be able to like have
your lights going to stand out these
days and so what we have here is the
ability
right
the ability to click on things and for
the very first time
have
behavior and interaction so i click on
pink boom background goes pink boom
green boom
blue boom
right i can i can i can go to town on it
look at me go
oh boy
[Music]
there we go
cool
alrighty so we have the ability to
effect the dom
right we have the ability to affect the
dom
and
what the heck do i mean by affect the
dom so what we see here
is that when i refresh
all these changes go away
all right
all these changes go away but when i
click
there are some changes that are taking
effect
okay
and
this at first is a pretty weird concept
because when i click green
right
when i click green
is there anything
right
that has changed
in my files
like has my css changed
to now include green
no
right no there's nothing that's
magically changed in my files
and if i'm actually in here and i and i
open this up in the inspector
right
i open this up in the inspector
i can see all this stuff in here make
this a little bit smaller
i can see all this stuff
that looks like html
right
it looks like html
but it's not
it's not really
html
it is the rendering
of our
html
what the browser does
is it reads your html
it reads your css
and it paints a lovely picture
so what you are seeing here
is a
lovely
picture
right that has been rendered it's a
painting it is not
the actual html or the actual css
right it is a rendering of that html and
that css
if you had a painter
and a painter sits down to to paint a
lovely model right a painter sits down
they draw a lovely model
right
we would never say
that this
painting
is the model
it is a
rendering of the model the painter saw
the model
right
and
painted the model we would never say
that this painting is the model
if the painter goes ahead and gives the
model a clown nose
right
gives them a clown nose the mod like the
models that magically poof like there's
not magically like like a red nose that
pops onto that model right this is the
rendering or the picture right it is the
rendering or the picture
right of the model
same thing is happening in the browser
the very first thing i just showed you
right the very first thing i just showed
you right when we first were writing our
html in css is that we opened up the h1
and we saw that the h1 was big bold
black and beautiful just like myself
right we saw that very very first first
time
but did i ever write css
that made it bold that made it big
right
it did we never we never wrote that css
so where the heck
did it come from where did that boldness
come from that that size come from
right it came because what we're seeing
in the browser
is not the direct carbon copy of the
html and the css
it is the rendering of that html and
that css in the browser
all right if i go ahead
and i refresh right
if i go ahead and i go in here and i
change this to
twitch background picker
right
and i hit enter all right
i change this to twitch background
picker
has my code updated
like if i go back into my code
right
if i go back into my code
like am i going to see that youtube has
been changed
no
i didn't affect the files
i affected the rendering
of those files
right as soon as i come back
and i
refresh
why does it go back to youtube
right why does it go back to youtube i
refreshed why does it go back to youtube
chat
because it's repainted it re-renders
exactly it re-reads the html it re-reads
the css
and it repaints the picture
so every single time you click refresh
you're repainting the picture you're
re-rendering it's re-reading the html
it's re-reading the javascript and it's
painting what we see here in the browser
this concept is called the dom or the
document object model what you're seeing
here on the on the on the right hand
side is not your html it is the
rendering of that html all this that we
see here in the inspector
it looks an awful lot like html but it's
not it's the rendering of the dom the
document object model whenever we
refresh the page
we re-render the dom
right now the cool thing is
we can mess with the dom
we can come along and make changes to it
right we can manipulate it we can add
behavior and interaction to our sites
with javascript
right
and what happens is that we're
manipulating the dom we're never
actually manipulating our files so as
soon as we refresh
all those changes to the dom
go away
okay
i like to think about my my grandma's
famous tofu soup
right grandma has an amazing tofu soup
has three
ingredients water
or water
salt
and
tofu
all right the amazing tofu soup recipe
and grandma makes this tofu soup
right we got a nice pot going
it's steaming
tasty
it looks good
right
but i got
a jerk cousin
and my jerk of a cousin comes along
and they throw
a tomato
into the soup
when my jerk of a cousin comes along and
throws a tomato into the soup does the
recipe magically update like we live in
harry potter land
like does my recipe magically change
no
the recipe doesn't change right the way
that we the recipe doesn't change it's
just the rendering of that soup that has
changed
i could refresh that soup
i could throw it all out
and then rebuild it from the recipe the
water the salt tofu and be back to my
original state without
the tomato
this is exactly what happens when you
refresh the page we throw out the dom
everything that's in there gets thrown
out
and we re-read the instructions we
re-read the recipe we reread the html we
re-read the css and we paint a new
picture
so the beautiful thing
is that javascript is our jerk of a
cousin it can come in it can mess with
our soup
right
it can mess with a soup right it can
mess with the soup
it can it can
it can make changes to it
right but as soon as we refresh
it all gets thrown out and we re-render
based on the recipe so in this example
javascript is the jerk of a cousin we
can use javascript to change the dom to
manipulate the dom to change the words
we see to change the colors we see to
make things move and spin
but as soon
right
as soon as we refresh the page
all that goes out and we re-render
the dom
so keep that in mind as we're making
these changes with javascript we're not
actually affecting the files we're not
actually making changes to our html or
css we're just making changes to what we
see in the browser and we're making
changes to this concept called the dom
at any point we refresh all those
changes go away we restart by rereading
the html and css
cool
all right now that we have that concept
down
let's go ahead and look at some actual
code
what you'll notice
is that i have three allies
right i have three allies
i have an li with the id of purple
an li with the id of green
and an id
uh sorry and i lie with the id of
blue
right of blue
and
this is going to be helpful because what
we're actually doing is when we click
these individual lis we want different
stuff to happen so let's look at our
javascript
don't be overwhelmed
tonight's not the night for it to make
all the sense we just want to talk
through
what we're seeing here
all right
what i am saying is hey
i'm looking up here i have these three
very specific
sets of instructions
remember i said
javascript is about instructions
right when we're writing programming
languages we're writing instructions let
me break down this instruction because
it's human readable trust me it's human
readable let me show you
the document
is the thing that we were just talking
about right it's that rendering of the
html and css when we look at this page
we're looking at the document right
we're looking at the document
and what we are saying is hey
when you're looking at this document
go get something
that has the id of
purple right so we're looking inside
that document
and we're going to find something that
has the id of purple
and we're saying hey
when you
click on it right
when you click on it
i want you to run this set of
instructions
all right
i want you to run this set of
instructions
so if we look
we can actually see if we open up our
inspector
we're looking at when i'm looking at
this right here what am i looking at
i'm looking at this like stuff that
looks like html over here what am i
actually looking at
yeah i'm looking at the dom or we're
going to say document for right now
right dom stands for the document object
model right so we're looking at it
is there something
in this document that has the id of
purple
yeah it's right here look at this li
this li has the id of purple
right
and so what i'm saying when i look at
this code is i'm saying hey
go look in that document
find something that has the idea of
purple
and
when you click on it
run these sets of instructions
so if we come down here
and we look at this set of instructions
right we look at that set of
instructions called party purple
the first set of instructions
right the first set of instructions says
hey
go back to that document
behind the body we know that all of our
html documents have a body
and give it a background color
that's that color
right and then go again
right go again
look in that document
find the body again
and change the font color to white
so we are writing instructions
in a way that's kind of maybe almost a
little bit human readable right remember
tonight you're a sponge we're going to
see these instructions over and over
again we're going to learn all the
different bits and bobs and the
different pieces but we're doing
something very specific we're saying hey
when somebody clicks on this thing in
the document
run these instructions
and the instructions are very clear
make the background purple
and make the font color
white
that's it
now
these right here
we call
event
listeners
you are listening for
events
right in this case the event is clicking
right that's the event we're listening
for it's called it's called a click
right we're listening for that event
called a click however
i never think of them as event listeners
i always think of them as smurfs
yep think of them as smurfs now some
people are like leon what the heck are
smurfs i know we have a global audience
so let me show you what a smurf is real
quick
these are smurfs
they're little blue people that like
live in mushrooms and [__]
very popular back in the day they have
some new movies that came out recently
but these are smurfs
okay
when i am setting up an event listener
what i am really doing
is putting a little smurf
somewhere
on the page in the dom if we have to use
the the actual term right so when i say
hey
go to that page go into that document
find something that has the idea of
purple we're gonna actually
put a smurf so if we go and we look at
our page
what we actually did is we put a little
smurf here
right we got a little smurf here
and this smurf
is just gonna sit there all day long
on the block
by themselves
right
and
when they hear the click right i'm
coming in ready
three two
one click the smurf goes ayo
all right the smurf the smurf saw the
click
right it saw the click and it was like
hey yo
right
and what it said it said hey yo
give me some party purple
wanted the party purple folks
wanted the party purple
so
we went and got the party purple
right the smurf was like hey yo
somebody clicked
give me the party purple and so we went
and we got the party purple we went we
made the background purple and we made
the font color white
we outside we are outside i'm inside but
about to be outside
all right
now the cool thing is we actually set up
three different smurfs
right we got three different smurfs here
we got the party purple smurf
we got the party green smurf and the
party blue smurf we set up three
event listeners three things that are
just sitting there all day long
listening for
clicks
right so if we go back and look
it's actually three smurfs
purple smurf
green smurf
blue smurf
they about that life
they on the block by themselves
right
and they hear
the clicks
and when they hear
they tell a certain
set of instructions to run
right they run the block
and when they hear that click they say
you do this right now
right you do this
right now and so when the green smurf
hears the click
it says all right time to run these
instructions
the party green the party green
instructions and those instructions say
hey
go to that document
find the body
make the background color green
then do it again go to that document
find the body
make the font color white
and that's why when you click on the
green box
it turns green and white
it that smurf here is the click
and then make sure that those
instructions are carried out
now you can call them smurfs
you can call them event listeners that's
up to you
all right they run these streets they
run these events
and you can call them what you want
you're going to hear me call them smurfs
sometimes
you hear me call them event listeners
but they're the same thing
they're just sitting there they're
waiting they're listening for a click
and when they hear the click
they tell certain things to pop off
cool
now
for homework
we're not going to do it right now
tonight we're sponges we're not really
going to type tonight right we're not
going to get our hands dirty this is
this is a very rare class where i'm not
asking you to like immediately start
coding or immediately start typing
because i want you to absorb right
next class i got you tuesday's class i
got you thursday's class i gotcha is the
rare class where we're not going to be
super typing along but for homework
your goal is to come back to this code
and i want you to add
another smurf
right i want you to add
another smurf that's listening it's
going to carry out some other
instructions
right so that means you're going to have
to add another li
that means you're going to have to add
another smurf or event listener i don't
know why some people call it that and
you have to add another set of
instructions we eventually give these
sets of instructions a name called a
function but we're not there yet right
and so that's gonna be that's gonna be
your homework so you're gonna come back
you're gonna add a new smurf you're
gonna add a new set of instructions
you're gonna add a new event listener
right
and then once you do that and you feel
all right i got it all to work
you're gonna save this somewhere else on
your computer
and you're going to delete it all
you're going to type it all out
and when you get stuck you're going to
look at your copy of it
and then you're going to delete it all
and you're going to redo it delete it
redo it delete it redo delete it until
you don't need to look
at the example anymore
you're going to get your active recall
in your spaced repetition in but the
idea is that you're going to delete it
all do it again delete it all do it
again until you don't need to look at
the reference anymore
and you're not copying and pasting
for this next two weeks you might as
well get rid of the
the cnv keys take them off we're not
going to need them we don't copy and
paste when we're first learning a
programming language the worst thing you
can do is copy and paste look at all
these new characters right that we're
about to start using you got to get
practice hitting those keys you got to
get practice with the way that you type
it all out right so no copy and paste
not around here not this week
two three weeks from now sure knock your
socks off but not right now you gotta
get used to you gotta get to the floor
you gotta hit the keys you gotta make
sure that things are going well
all right
keep it moving
now
when learning to code and you're
learning your first
programming language
that's hilarious
when you're first learning your first
programming language
in this case javascript
there are four
major things that you have to learn
you have to learn variables
you have to learn conditionals you have
to learn functions you have to learn
loops
if you can understand
variables conditionals functions and
loops you can build whatever you want
you can build whatever the heck you want
just with those four
things
and so when people get into javascript
they think it's going to be like this
wild adventure that they'll never be
able to lock down but it's really just
getting good at like four things
okay
right like four things objects will come
a little bit later but
not really you don't even need to use
them like those are extra right but it's
really just those four things you can
learn those four things variables
conditionals functions and loops you can
build whatever you want
okay
everything else is a little bit extra
they make our lives easier we get we get
other data structures that make our
lives easier objects arrays things like
that they make our lives easier but you
can build whatever you want with just
these four things
right cool so tonight we're going to
look at variables
and we're going to look at conditionals
next week we'll add functions we'll add
loops and we'll keep moving along
the pattern here all right so variables
what the heck are variables
variables
are what we can use
right to tell our program to remember a
value for later on
we're going to need to store information
right and be able to use that
information later on
variables are the entity that we use
to store those values to be used later
on
okay
when we were talking about the zeros and
ones and like the building up to a
modern computer one of the things a
computer needs is memory like a place to
store stuff right
and the reason why computers are so much
better than humans at a lot of this
stuff is because humans forget right
computers can remember lots and lots of
stuff because they have
memory and the main way we use this
memory to start out are through
variables
all right
so
when we are using a variable
there are a couple different steps
so let's imagine we have a space
for
memory so i'm just going to draw a space
here
it's going to call this memory
all right this is our space
for
memory
when we are using variables
we have two really fundamental steps
the first step we call declaration
and the second step we call
assignment
declaration
is what we use
right it's what we use to create a space
in memory
right declaration enables us to create a
space in memory
i like to think of variables
as data buckets all they are are buckets
of data so you create a bucket
you put something into that bucket
and then later on when you want it you
can go back and pull it out of the
bucket
that's all variables are they're
creating buckets that we can store stuff
in and at some future date we can go
and take stuff out of the bucket
okay
so
we have a keyword here called let
and in javascript there are some special
words they're called reserved words
there are words that javascript looks
out for and understands
when it sees the word let that's like
alarm bells going off for javascript
saying hey hey hey hey wait a minute
somebody
is trying to create a bucket a bucket of
data
right a bucket of data and so when it
sees that keyword let
right when it sees the keyword let
it creates a new space in memory and so
right here i've done my declaration step
i've created a new space in memory
called
age
right so if we could actually look into
the computer's memory
right now there would be a space that is
empty that is marked for age
right now right now
is there anything stored in that bucket
called age
there is not
at this moment in time
there is nothing
stored in that bucket
that takes us to our next step which we
call assignment
with the assignment stage right with the
assignment step we can actually assign
that bucket of value like we can put
something in it so here you can see i'm
going to set age
equal to 25.
that's the same thing as putting the
number
into our bucket
all right
and now
that
bucket is stored in memory
and at any point in time i want to
retrieve that age i can
right i can ask the computer hey
what's stored in the age bucket
and it will give me
25.
right the name we give this is called a
variable it's just a bucket right the
bucket that holds stuff
right
and there are two steps with variables
where you create the space in memory
called declaration and where you assign
it a value
called assignment
cool now the cool thing is once we start
assigning stuff to memory we can use it
however we please
so uh let's pretend that we're facebook
right
facebook stores a lot of stuff right
facebook knows your age they probably
know your location they know your last
sexual partner uh they know your birth
date they know a lot of stuff about you
right
and so
the
people always freak out about this one
uh it's true right so think about this
facebook knows your location
right
they can see two phones
in the same location
for the night
right
and then those two phones don't go back
to the same location at night ever again
so they know
who you're sleeping with
if you got that facebook app on your
phone so let's be real
right
so
they're storing age maybe they also want
to store your location right so let's go
ahead and declare a variable called
location so we'll say
let
location
that's our declaration step and so we go
ahead and create a new space in memory
called
location beautiful
and then the next step right the next
step
is assigning it a location let's just
say
uh boston
right
so we assigned to the location of boston
so this first step was the declaration
step
and this step was the assignment now in
memory is
boston
beautiful
so now we have all these things in
memory
and what we can do and why this is so
cool is we can start to use these things
that are stored in memory i can say
bob
age
sorry let's just say bob is
right
bob
is not in
location
right
so what happens here is we're trying to
use these variables
so instead of it saying age bob is age
it would say bob is
25.
and instead of saying location right we
would say bob is not in
boston
all right the beautiful thing here
is that
these different variables this age
this location will be different for each
person
but we could still have the same use we
could still say bob is blank
right bob is not in blank and we could
change the age as they get older we
could change the location as their
location changes but our actual use
doesn't have to change and so the
beautiful thing is that variables enable
us to store values to use later on and
we can use them throughout our entire
program sometimes we're plopping them
into the dom sometimes we're adding to
them sometimes we're subtracting from
them sometimes we're reassigning them or
changing them so variables at a low
level are just buckets that we put data
into
right
and eventually we can reuse that data if
we want
all right
when you are naming your variables
right when you are naming your variables
you're most likely gonna have to stick
to a convention the convention that i
use is something called camelcase
i use camelcase on all of my html my css
my javascript throughout my entire code
basis it's always camelcase
and the idea is that the first
word
in your variable is lowercase
and then every other word is capitalized
so here you can see number of apples
number is lowercase
of and apples is capitalized
right
now
with this variable
what is this part here that i circled
called chat what's that part called
what's the part i just i just circled
called
nice called declaration exactly
and
what is this part called
yeah it's called assignment exactly it's
called assignment so if i had memory
again
if i were looking in our memory we would
see a new space in memory that was
declared called
number
of
apples
right and inside that we would assign it
the value of a nine
beautiful
now
we can store
all kinds of data
in our variables like those data buckets
can all hold all kinds of different data
it's all data it just has different
types
we've seen two different types of data
so far can anybody guess the two types
of data that we've seen so far
we've seen two different kinds of data
so far at least two
yeah we saw numbers like the number nine
or the age of 25 and then we saw strings
strings are just a fancy way of saying a
piece of text right so we saw the string
of boston right and so
those are two of the data types we're
going to learn first first on but there
are so many others so let's explore
numbers and strings for right now and
we'll get to the others in future
classes
all right
strings
in javascript will always be surrounded
by quotes
right you can use
double quotes
or you can use single quotes and in a
little bit a couple classes we'll also
see how to use tix for template literals
but we're not there yet right so our
strings will always be wrapped in double
quotes single quotes or ticks
but it's up to you it's like your
preference of what you want to use
the thing that you have to remember
however
is whatever you use on the outside
you cannot use on the inside without
doing a trick
all right so here i have they purchased
it
and i have single quotes on the outside
and double quotes on the inside so we're
good but if i had done double quotes on
the outside we would have run into a
very specific problem let me show you
the problem we would have run into
so i'm going to type this out i'm going
to use double quotes on the outside
they
purchase
and then i'm going to say
it
right they purchased it
what happened here
this isn't the the orange that it should
be
yeah we got two separate strings here
right we have two separate strings this
first string is day space
right and the second string is space it
because those quotes terminated it
closed the first string
and then there's some empty stuff and
then there's another string
so whenever you use the same quotes on
the outside is on the inside you're
going to wind up breaking it up into two
separate strings now for the folks that
did the homework
what do you think javascript is trying
to
[Music]
think that purchased is what is
javascript going to try and see if
purchased is
yeah javascript is going to look for a
variable
called purchased right it's looking for
a variable called purchase but when i
hit enter
i get a syntax error unexpected
identifier it's because there's nothing
that has been what called purchase
there's a very specific word we have to
say here there's nothing that has been
what that is called purchased
yeah
there's nothing that has been declared
that is called purchase there's nothing
in memory there's no space in memory
with the name purchased so it's going to
get an error because there's nothing in
memory called purchased nice
all right there is a trick however
we can escape
our quotes
so if i go ahead and put a backslash
before each quote
it escapes it
it means it tells javascript hey
ignore
these double quotes right ignore these
double quotes so that i can have my cake
and eat it too it's called escaping so
those
backslashes enable us to escape those
quotes so it doesn't create two separate
strings and a variable that's not
declared we can keep our double quotes
on the outside and our double quotes on
the inside we just have to escape nice
same thing happens with single quotes if
we replace these with uh single quotes
then our contraction would end here and
we'd wind up
with the same problem
excuse me
now if you're like whoa we can escape
what else can we do well there is
something else we can do we can do these
things right here if we do escape n
what that does is it's the same thing as
like hitting enter
right so it'll give you a carriage
return if you do escape t
it'll give you some tabbing
right it'll give you a give you a tab
now why do you think i put
a lovely like
warning light down here
why do you think i have a lovely warning
light
that sounds an awful lot like css yes
let's go
we don't fire chat let's go we don't get
got we go get
exactly that's really close to css like
spacing stuff returning stuff i don't
know that's a little too close for me it
sounds a little too much like css it
sounds like we're getting a little too
close with uh violating separation of
concerns so yeah i don't know i think
i'll stay with that from now
we go get exactly
all right
so we talked about strings let's talk
about
numbers all right let's talk about
numbers uh so in javascript we have two
kinds of numbers that you're gonna run
into a lot
you're gonna run into
integers which are just like whole
numbers and you're gonna run into
floated values which are numbers with
decimal places so integers like our
whole numbers
our floated values have decimal places
whenever you hear somebody talk about
floats in javascript or most programming
languages they just mean a number with
decimal places there's a little bit more
nuance to it but that's what they're
talking about
in javascript you can also have signed
numbers
people are like freaking out no floats
no
i loved all the tweets after class on uh
on tuesday
they had me giggling
yeah we have two different kinds of
signed numbers in in javascript we can
have positive numbers and we could have
negative numbers
cool
in javascript we have
uh
different types of arithmetic right
different operators that handle our math
so in javascript we use the plus sign
for addition
we use the hyphen for subtraction
we use the asterisk for multiplication
we use the forward slash
for
division
and then the last one
the last one is the percent and that is
our modulus it's how we get a remainder
now before we get into modulus people
are going to freak out leon i thought
you said there's no math you don't need
math
to be
a web developer a full stack web
developer you just don't need it there's
very little math that you're going to
ever really realistically get into but
you need to know how to do basic
arithmetic you do need to know how to do
like basic addition subtraction uh it's
gonna come in handy so
i don't think we're gonna just go off
the cliff into like
discrete math or anything like that
we're not we're we're going to stick
with the basics here folks
quick maths exactly quick maths
uh modulus it's how we get a remainder
right nope that's why i have a phone
leon
is why we it's how we get a remainder so
chat if i did 10
mod 4 what would i get
if i did 10 mod 4 what would i get
we would get 2 right because four
would go into ten twice
and we'd have two left over and we could
actually use the console to do this too
right we go to the console we can do
mod four
and we see we have two left over
right if i did ten
mod six
you can see that i would get four right
six goes into ten one time and there's
four
left over
all right so modulus is just the
remainder
right
and a lot of people were like leon what
would why would i ever need modulus
well modulus actually comes in handy a
lot
not just to get remainders but there's
something really cool that if you
understand how remainders work uh that
you can you can figure something out let
me let me show you real quick let me do
let me do two things here and see if you
can guess what i'm getting at
so let's go ahead and do
let's go ahead and do
mod 2
and i'm going to do 8
mod 2.
what do you think i could use modulus to
figure out
yeah check got it we could use modulus
to figure out even and odd right if you
use modulus with the number two so you
take some number and you mod it by 2
and you get a remainder of anything like
anything that's not 0 you know that
that's an odd number but if you get 0
you know that that's an even number
right so very quickly you can use
modulus to determine if something is
even or odd and this actually becomes
the cornerstone of a very famous
programming challenge called fizzbuzz
what fizzbuzz says is print the numbers
between 1 and a hundred if the number is
divisible by three print fizz if the
number is visible by five print buzz the
numbers divisible by three and five
print fizz buzz and so this is like the
cornerstone of that you would just do
the number mod 5 the number sorry mod 3
you do the number in mod 5 and then you
do the number by mod 15 or 3 n5 right
and so we're not there yet but this
modulus does actually come up it helps
folds for figuring out odd and even and
also pretty helpful when it comes to
some of the like quintessential coding
challenges that we'll be getting to very
shortly
all right let's take a look at a not so
great calculator and then we will go
ahead and um take a break so i'm going
to go ahead and open up my code
for the not so great calculator i'm
going to go ahead and close our
uh background picker you can hear all
the smurfs slowly dying in the
background
you hear them no god
no god please no no
no
his name gargamel i think
yeah
oh no
all right
it's too loud i gotta fix that i gotta
figure out i thought it was um i thought
it was just the sound alerts that were
loud but i guess it's the whole system
settings that are allowed i'll figure it
out
you're awake now gotcha there you go
welcome back
all right let's go ahead and open up
this
simple calculator
all right
so
i'm going to open this in the browser
and uh here's a very simple calculator
if i click zero
i get zero if i click plus three it goes
up by three a little bit bigger if i
click plus nine it goes up by nine if i
click minus two it goes down by two
since i can click
right
all right
since i can click
on four
different things what do i know that i
have four of
since i can click on four different
things what do you know i have four of
yeah i got four smurfs or four event
listeners right whatever you want to
call them right i have at least four
smurfs or at least four event listeners
that are listening for these clicks
right so if i click zero that smurf is
telling something to happen if i click
list plus three another telling
something else to happen if i click plus
nine another is telling something else
to happen if i click minus two another
is telling something else to happen so
these are our event listeners
now if we go ahead and look at our code
we can see that there are
four different lis there's pumpkin there
is
domino's pizza
right
then we have
zebra
and we have can't think of anything
because i ran out of ideas all right
cool so we have these four allies with
their own ids so we can use those ids
when it comes
to our javascript we can target those
specific allies right we can target the
specific allies everybody's saying did
you get a sponsorship no i just really
like dominoes
all right
now once again remember we're sponges
don't let this be overwhelming we're
gonna break through
every single bit that's here happening
all right
once again
we're saying go to the document
right the dom
right
we're going to we're going to the
document we're going to the dom we're
going to that rendering of our html and
css
and we're going to look for something
that has the id of pumpkin
the query selector is just another way
of finding elements and so here we're
telling it just like we would find stuff
in css basically is what we can use
inside a query selector so when you see
the octothorpe
pumpkin you know we're looking for
something that has the id of pumpkin
and when we find it
we put our smurf on the block
right
that's us putting the smurf on the block
so just to run through that again
we're looking in the dom like the
rendering of our html and css we're
looking for the thing that has the idea
of pumpkin and when we find it
we place our smurf
right
and the cool thing
all right the cool thing is that this
smurf right
this smurf
can actually change right can actually
change what it's looking for
right it can change what it's looking
for
all right so right now it's at the click
and so we're seeing
we're seeing
the difference here is query selector
and get element by id interchangeable
they are there are slight differences
we'll get to those later on remember
we're sponges tonight doesn't matter
where baddies are writing bad code
all right the cool thing is we're using
this add event listener where we saw
before on click guess what on click can
only do what
on click
can only i'm gonna how can i time out
for a less amount of time
when i said little caesars
trying to time them out mods can you
time them out just for a few seconds
thank you
yeah
right now we
don't please don't do that
we have an event listeners listening for
a click right but we we can we can we
can change it right on click can only
handle clicks ad event listener can
handle every single type of event
right so let's change this to
mouse enter
all right we're gonna change this to
mouse enter i'm gonna save
i'm gonna come back i'm gonna refresh
beautiful
now we have our lovely smurf sitting
here
all right we got our lovely smurf
fitting sitting here i'm gonna hit the
plus three right just so you can see
that there's some three here but watch
i'm not gonna click
actually i'll show you down here look
this is me clicking plus three
get the click see the click plus three
look as i move my mouse in
not clicking
it goes back to zero
right
plus three you hear the click
moving my mouse in
boom back to zero
right so these are different events
right
these are different events and the
beautiful thing is that leona asmr
and the cool thing is that when you use
add event listener you get to use all
the events mouse enter mouse leave click
double click right there all these other
things you can use and so as we kind of
continue on we won't ever really use on
click because it doesn't give us the
flexibility right but what we said here
is hey
look in the dom find the thing that has
the id of pumpkin
put a smurf on it or an event listener
on it that's listening for this type of
event and when the smurf
sees or hears that event
it tells this set of instructions to run
right so this set of instructions down
here
says to do something to total
and then to do something else let's talk
about this first part here
total equals zero
anybody know what this is called
so this is called very something very
specific that you might have picked up
from the from the homework
it's close to assignment close to
assignment yes it's re-assignment
it's reassignment right if we look up
here
we can see that we declared a variable
called total
and we assigned it the value of zero
here
we're reassigning it to zero
right we're reassigning it to zero
if we look at the other sets of
instructions we're doing other things to
that variable called total
right here i'm adding three to total
so if total was zero
i'm doing zero plus three
and reassigning total to now be three
right let's let's go and open up the
inspector and play around with that idea
all right
so we have a space in memory
let's go and create our console let's go
ahead and sign total let total
equal
zero
great
oh sorry let's let's do a different
variable
um let's go and do
because we already have total we're
running the page already has total let's
go uh let's call let age
equal
25. there we go so what we've created
now
is a space and memory
called age
and it's equal to 25.
if i want
i got i did get got right if i want
i can
reassign age to be some other value so i
can go ahead let's see what age is right
now if i hit age and i hit enter
i get 25 right we can see that 25
timed out sorry y'all violin
i'm so sorry i won't do that again i
apologize
somebody just said papa john's in all
caps and i went i like i think the mods
deleted it and i timed them out
[Laughter]
like i went to time them out but the
mods already deleted it
this is a domino stream folks all right
so i type in i typed in
uh age right i typed in age
and i got 25 back right i got 25 back
right y'all want i'm going to find y'all
i'm just going to go back to the logs
bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam bam
bam bam bam bam bam bem bomb
i'm going to set up an event listener
that'll ban y'all
that's over that's what we'll do well
we'll on on office hours you come back
we'll write some javascript that bans
all the people shouting out other pizza
places when this is a domino stream i'll
show you how to code it and then we'll
just let it run and we'll do it that way
all right so we have age equaling 25.
i can
reassign age to be something else
right here we go age equals 30.
when i do that
right when i do that
the spot that was 25
is now
30 right that space and memory has been
reassigned to 30.
cool
we can also go ahead and add right you
can also add
all right so we can do age equals
age
plus
five
if i hit enter
what is the space and memory now gonna
hold
right if i hit enter right what is the
space in memory going to hold
go in a chat for me
35 exactly we've reassigned it now to be
35 the reason why it's 35 is because age
at this point in time
was
30.
so i do 30
plus 5
which is 35
and that 35 is what winds up reassigning
age
right what winds up reassigning age
right we took a value we added to it and
we reassigned it
cool we can also do a different slightly
different way of doing this right
we could also do this
age
plus equals 10
right and where would we be at
yeah we'd be at 45.
we just added 10 to our age it
reassigned age to be 10 more
so that space in memory would now be 45.
cool so there are different ways of
doing the reassignment there are
different ways of adding incrementally
we can add by one by doing plus plus
we'll see all of this don't worry we're
gonna see all of these examples in way
more depth with way more things going
forward tonight i'm just trying to show
you some cool stuff
right you're not getting it that's okay
i'm just trying to show you some cool
things this idea of variables we can
reassign them we can do different stuff
with them it's dope
cool
so let's take a little bit let's take a
look at this code and then we will um
we'll take a break cool
so we have this variable called total
right that we're going to reassign as we
go along
and we have all of these different
smurfs
or
event listeners right so we have these
event listeners that we click on the
smurf hears them and does something
right so let's click on plus three
and walk through the code of what just
happened
all right what what line was the event
listener that just heard that
what line had the event listener that
heard the plus three
yeah it's line
let's look if we look
the plus three was oh would you imagine
that domino's pizza ah
who would have thought right it was
domino's pizza
all right
which is line four
right so we heard
the click
on domino's pizza and when we heard the
click when that smurf
heard the click
on domino's pizza right that plus three
right when it heard the click on
domino's pizza what set of instructions
did the smurf tell to run
what set of instructions did the smurf
tell to run
ayo jumanji
exactly
now
as as we've learned
there is only one independence day
and as we learned there's only one
jumanji
all right so it ran jumanji so are we
going to run this block of code
we're going to run this set of
instructions
no not going to run the set of
instructions we're going to run the set
of instructions that have the name
jumanji
great and the first thing we do
what is line 14 doing what do we call
this
we just learned this what is what do we
call line 14 what is happening on line
14 what do we call this
yeah we're reassigning total to whatever
what whatever total was it is now total
plus three
so this is the very first time we
clicked we know total started off at
zero so at the end of line 14 total is
what
by the end of when we get done with line
14 total is at what
yeah
total is now at three
great so our last line of code let's
read it out and see if we can understand
what's happening here we're gonna go
back to the dom we're gonna go back to
the document the rendering that we've
been talking about all night
we're gonna look for something that has
the id
of place to put results
and then we're going to put some text
inside of it
and that text that we're going to put
inside
is
total
but right now total is what
total is three
dreamin
zero nine zero four thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
ah thank you
it's three
right so let's see we can figure this
out
go to the document
find the thing that has the idea of
place to put result
and then put inside of it the number
three
all right let's look
is there
something if we look inside the dom
is there something
with the id
of place that was ah here we go
here is a span
that has the id
of place to put result
so we're going to put something in there
we're going to put some text
i'm going to put some text in there
all right we're going to put some text
in there and that text we're going to
put in there right now is the number
three
so that's why we see the dom right here
and we see that we see the three here
and we see the three there because we've
updated it right we put that we put the
bit of text three in there
all right if we go ahead and click
something else let's click the plus nine
we can see the dom update in real time
right
we click these other things we're seeing
the dom update in real time right this
is the beauty of javascript right this
is the beauty of javascript it is the
jerk it can come along and mess with the
dom in real time but if
i refresh what happens
if i refresh what happens
it all resets right i'll refresh boom it
all goes back to nothing
poof
all the work we put in all the dom
manipulation that happened it completely
resets it goes back let's look
right now
there's nothing inside right there's
nothing inside
that place to put results if we look
right if we look at our html
it's because there is nothing in the
span to begin with
i could put something in here i could
put let's let's put
put bob in here
all right let's put bob
we'll put the we'll put the word bob in
here it's going to cause some problems
let's put bob in here let's say let's
come back let's refresh right now
now the dom starts off
with bob in there right the dom starts
off with bob here right
and if we were to click anything but the
zero we would run into issues right if
we click plus three now we're good but
let me refresh and let me do plus nine
right
plus nine
right let's go ahead and do plus three
let me refresh here
wait a minute
let's refresh
plus nine
how to go from bob to nine
how'd it go from bob to nine
bob plus nine
should be nine bob
so there's some some interesting things
that are eventually going to happen here
we're eventually going to get into this
idea of strings
and numbers
right
but
was total
actually bob
let's think about this was bob actually
total
no
total was zero
total had nothing
to do
with what i put in this span the start
total doesn't care what was in that span
to start
right bob never it never even crossed
the mind of it to be bob
right because bob was just what was
inside the span but we don't care
there's there's nothing here
that says worry about the span it just
says total is zero and do zero plus nine
now if we do up here and we start acting
reckless right we put bob up here and
set bob the total and we come back and
then we start playing games right then
we're going to get into some weird
situations where we're running into like
strings being added to numbers and
they're different types and this gets
weird
right we can always go back to zero
and we're in a good shape right because
zero
it doesn't care what what total was it
just completely reassigns it back to
zero
here we were seeing what's called string
concatenation but i just want to show
you that because
one of the reasons why people struggle a
little bit with javascript is eventually
there's like some of these like weird
things that pop up but we're going to
spend a lot of time on that stuff we're
going to see all that in the future but
for now let's set this back to zero
and we just know that when we click on
something
we're firing an event listener that
event listener tells some instructions
to run and we can see these instructions
doing some sort of reassignment and then
putting that reassigned stuff into the
dom
all right
let's take a well-deserved break when we
come back from the break we're going to
talk about making decisions using
conditionals so let's go and take a
break
put five minutes on the clock if you're
new around here we like to be healthy
like to take our time if you're able to
please get up move around stretch
hydrate kiss some babies walk some dogs
and i'll see you back here in five
he loves tech this is great hey i'm glad
you think so in five
[Music]
do
yo
bob looks how i felt this week happy on
the outside dead on the inside
did you know that gargamel was trying to
capture smurf to melt down into gold
i just knew there was something weird
while why he was chasing them that's
pretty cool i didn't know that
will you solve the remaining layouts
during office hours yep we'll get
through most of them during office
hours i played breath of the wild of
course i didn't finish it though but
yeah i played it
you ready of course we always raid
i don't really know too much about
aldrin ringgit i'm not i don't really i
like heard of it but i haven't looked
into it much yet
how many teacups do you have a lot
thoughts on typescript i use it
different tools right different tools
for different jobs
i do like pip club
cool all right folks come on back come
on back
you don't post office hours on youtube i
don't
so you show up
you can always watch the vods on youtube
they're on there for 60 days
come on back folks come on back
when's the cs go so we're gonna be up
hopefully soon we're just working again
the last touches going
i want to be able to like be done with
it and then never have to like touch it
for a while
cool all right folks get in here
alrighty
did you ever get tired of us no that's
always fun
all right come on folks get him back in
here and uh let's keep pushing
all right
talk about the big four right we had
variables conditionals loops and
functions uh so far we talked about
variables now let's talk about the next
which is those conditionals right
those conditionals are what we're going
to use to make decisions
alrighty so here we have
a
value that is either true or
false
right we have the ability to say all
right
if whatever happens inside of here is
true
we will do what happens inside of the
curly braces
all right
now
if
what is inside here is not true we do
not do what's inside the curly braces
and so what we have to realize is that
if we want to be able to use
conditionals and make decisions we
actually have to be able to make
comparisons all right so to make
comparisons we got to learn how to
compare stuff in javascript the idea is
to be able to
using these values
right using these values be able to
see whether or not something is equal to
something else if something is less than
something else something is greater than
something else right
and the idea here is that we have to
figure out all these different ways to
do comparison
alrighty
here is the first thing that we're
comparing right here we're comparing the
number nine
to
the number nine so is the number nine
equal to the number nine is that true or
false
it's true right
the number nine is indeed equal to the
number nine so that is true
all right look at the next one
is the number seven
equal to the number three
no that is false the number seven is not
equal to the number three uh so that we
would give us a false value but where it
gets a little odd with javascript is
this idea that we can compare a string
to another string
right we can say all right is the string
hello
equal to the string hello
right and in javascript that's actually
true the one string is equal to the
other string right so they're both true
here so what we want to start doing is
take a little bit deeper look and how we
make these comparisons how we figure out
these equalities and move through it
all right so
here i have done something very specific
what have i done
right here
what is this right here
yeah i've done i've done an assignment
right there's no actually there's
actually no declaration step there right
so let's pretend that there was a
declaration step that said like let x
right that was just strictly assignment
right and what we're noticing is that i
used
one equal sign
for that assignment
right
i used one equal sign for that
assignment
what we're going to notice is when it
comes to comparison we're going to use
two
or three equal signs not one so
something that we actually be very
careful about if we ever just use one
equal sign we're doing assignment again
but two or three equal signs is how we
do comparison
all right so wherever we see x here
we know x is what
whenever we see x we know x is what in
this case
x is three nice so
when we look at this we're saying is
three
equal to the number eight so is number
equal to the number eight but when you
see two equal signs
it's
just
the value
right
just the value
so is number three
equal to the number eight in value no
they are not equal
in value so we get false
where javascript gets a little tricky is
when we look at this next line
x is equal to number 3.
so does number three answer the first
question first here does number three
equal string three in value
in value
this number three equals string 3 in
value
the answer to that question is yes they
are the same in value 3 is 3.
however when we have 3 equal signs we're
not just looking for value
we're also looking for
type
one in this case is a number
this is number three
this over here however is what
what is that one over there
yeah it's string three
it's string three exactly
one is a number and one is a string
and when you have three equal signs
you're saying i want to compare stuff
not only on value
but i also want to compare stuff on
type
so in this case it passes the first
check they are the same in value but
they are not the same in type so we
would get
false
however when we come down to this last
one here
we get to compare does number three
equal number three in value chat
is number three equal number three in
value
yes
and does number three equal number three
in type
yeah they're both numbers so that would
be true right so we have to remember in
javascript
one equal sign has nothing to do with
comparison it's just assignment
two equal signs we're looking at value
three equal signs we're looking at value
and type
cool
all right we got a bunch of other ones
down here uh and these scare a lot of
people so we're just not going to do
them tonight we'll come back to them
maybe next class or sometime next week
so we're going to skip those for now
we'll come back to those because that's
where people just close the computer and
run away so we'll we'll save those for
another day
all right remember
the whole reason
we cared about these
these like conditional statements right
these these this idea of something is
equal to or or eventually greater than
and less than right is because we want
to be able to do stuff based on certain
things being true we want to be able to
make decisions using conditionals
remember we said the big four variables
conditionals loops and functions this is
the basis of conditionals and how we
make decisions
and they actually just follow one really
important rule
if whatever is inside the parentheses is
true
we do what happens inside the curly
braces
that's it
so if what is inside the parentheses is
true we wind up doing what is inside of
the curly braces
this hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
all right so let's take a look at this
here we go
there are actually three different steps
that you can have when using conditional
syntax
if you use an if
and this condition is true
you do what's inside the curly braces
and then you stop
that's it you're done
as soon as you hit something that's true
you stop you don't move on to any other
values
right
however
if
this condition was not true
right if it was not true
we would move on to the else if
and check to see if this was true
right
so if this was false we move on to the
elsif
and the cool thing is you can actually
have as many elsifs as you want so you
could have an if and then an elsif and
elsif and elsif and elsif and elsif and
elsif and you're just checking more and
more stuff
right but let's say
the if
was false
the else if was false
the elf
would auto magically run
right it would automatically run
automagically run right it doesn't need
a condition
it just runs if everything else above it
was false
see a lot of people hitting bingo right
now i got you i knew what's happening
all right so keep that in mind you can
have an if
as many else's as you want and then just
one else and you don't need to have an
else it's just if everything else was
false the else will just automatically
run right it just will it doesn't need
to check anything it just runs so it's
typically used for like a default
all right so let's look at this in
action
all right we're going to declare a
variable
const pizza
equals
dominos
all right
pizza equals dominos
uh because we're declaring a variable
called dominos now pizza called dom
that's set equal to dominoes right that
is assigned the value of dominoes now
why did i use this keyword here called
const
anyway that did the the homework know
why i called this const pizza not let
pizza
because const or constants
it don't change it'll never change it
will always be dominoes it's not
changing to anything else it will never
be reassigned it can't be reassigned
when you have a const
that keyword that's declaring a variable
but you said as a const it can't be
reassigned right so just like pizza will
always be dominoes
it can't be reassigned right so if
you're gonna declare a variable you can
use let or stuff that will change or
const for stuff that will never change
like pizza being equal to dominoes
all right
so we have our const of pizza equaling
dominoes so let's check out our first if
here
uh does pizza equal
papa john's in value and type
hell
no
right so if the if is not true
we move on to the else if right we move
on to the elsif so here we're looking at
the elsif and we say hey
does pizza equal dominoes in value and
type
that is true right we can see that pizza
does indeed equal dominoes and value and
type so print it to the console would be
all aboard the train the flavor town the
console is this thing right here
right this is the console we would see
something be printed here that says all
aboard the train to flavor town
right
cool
what if
what if we didn't know how to spell
dominoes right
what do we spell dominoes with an e
we're new around these parts we spelled
it with an e what would happen what
would eventually wind up being printed
to the console
we'll be printed to the console
it would be what are you even doing with
your life exactly that is what would be
printed to the console because
right
if there was an e here
uh pizza would not equal papa john's so
the if would be not true we move on to
the elsif in this case pizza would not
be equal to dominoes because we spelled
it wrong right so then we go to the else
did the else need to check anything to
run
run no
it just ran
and we printed to the console
what are you even doing with your life
cool
so this is the idea you can have ifs as
many else's as you want and then else's
we're gonna see a lot of this in action
we're gonna get a lot of hands-on
keyboard time with this stuff uh so
we'll see a lot of this in the next
coming weeks
all right
what is the danger between assignment
and comparison
why do i throw that up here with with
like big red
alerts what is it what is the danger
between assignment and comparison
yeah if we accidentally used one equal
sign instead of two or three we're going
to run into a very specific error let's
actually uh copy this code from here
and i'm going to put it into my console
let's go ahead and copy it
and so i'm just going to paste it into
my console
and i'm going to hit enter
so we can see that it printed to the
console
all aboard the train to flavor town
right all aboard the train the flavor
town but let's run it again
let's run it again
but instead of doing three equal signs
here
let's do one
right let's do one and if we hit enter
what
assignment to a constant variable
somebody tried to change dominoes
to papa john's like what were they
thinking
right
what happened here
yeah
right here when there's one equal sign
what just tried to happen
when there's one equal sign what what
what just happened there
since it's one equal sign it tried to
reassign
right it tried to reassign it tried
it tried to set pizza to papa john's
but const said hell no
pizza is constant and will always be
dominoes you can't change it to anything
else right that reassignment did not
come through
this is a domino's household this is a
domino's boot camp
and they got got
all right
so we got to be careful if you ever do
this one equal sign what you're going to
wind up doing is not comparison right
it's not going to be comparison it's
going to be reassignment so be careful
don't get got
when you're doing comparison you need
two or three equal signs not one one is
assignment you got got
mozilla thank you
all right
the cool thing is we can actually put
multiple conditions
in our conditional logic right so
if we
my pencil go if we want to check for two
things at the same time we can check so
if name
equals bruce
and
your parents are dead
then we can turn off the bat signal
because batman is here
right so that's that's both both have to
be true
and if both are true we can turn off the
bat signal uh because batman is there
cool
so double ampersand is and both sides
have to be true right the left hand side
to be true and the right-hand side has
to be true we could also have or
right
leona spider-cause confirmed
the outside huh all right we can have or
right or means that just one of them has
to be true
so if day equals saturday
or
right or
day equals sunday then we know that it's
the weekend right only one has to be
true so we're gonna start to see our
conditional logic get a little bit more
complex we can do just straight up right
just got straight up
one value that we're looking for right
one value that we're looking for or we
can look for
both values we can look for either or
values and so these conditions can get a
little bit more complicated over time
all right so to kind of demonstrate this
and this will be our i think this will
be our last example for tonight uh and
then we'll we'll kind of lay out what
the next week will look like
um
and what i want to start off with is
this example here called class weekend
or boring day
all right class weekend or boring day
someone said is javascript backend
javascript can run on the back end and
the front end what we're looking at
right now is front end or client-side
javascript yeah
all right so we're going to open up
class weekend or boring day
let's go to our starter code
if you're new around here you need the
starter code you can do exclamation
point discord join our discord agree to
the rules and you'll see all the starter
code in our follow along materials
channel
all right so i'm going to open up
the class weekend or boring day
all right
so
here we have
if we look
a form
right we have a form
and that form says
day of the week for the label and then
we have an input
for the day of the week right it has the
id of day but it's a place for us to put
the day of the week
we have a button that we could
eventually click that'll that'll help us
check to see if the day of the week
equals something and then we have a an
id called place to see so the idea here
is if we open this in the browser
a little bit bigger what i want to be
able to do
is put in a day of the week
right
put in a day of the week i'm going to be
able to click the button
and i want to see if it's class
all right i want to see if it's class
the weekend or boring
right is it a class day
a weekend or a boring day
all right
so
if we look and we have this button that
we're going to click called
check what do we know that we need
what do we know we need if we're just
looking is what do we know we need
we need a smurf exactly we need an event
listener that's going to listen
that's going to listen for that click
now
what else do we need this program to do
what do we need this program to do
it's going to listen for the click but
then what are the instructions that it's
going to do
yeah
i need to do a couple of things it's
going to need to be able to
get the value
out of the input
right we need some way of getting the
value out of the input
once we have that value that was in the
input we need to figure out we need to
do some comparison some conditional
logic exactly see how many people saying
comparison we need to do some
conditional logic some comparison we
need to see if the day equals tuesday or
thursday because then we'll be in class
we need to see if the day equals
saturday or sunday because that would be
a weekend
and
if it's not a tuesday or thursday or a
saturday or sunday we need to just say
boring right and make it sure it says
boring
all right so what we just talked through
right there
is something we call
pseudo code
i didn't really use any like technical
jargon maybe other than like event
listener right
but what we just did is we just talked
out loud about what our program is going
to do we call this pseudo code whenever
i start to write a program
the first thing i do is i talk through
my pseudo code yeah it's like a story
about the program exactly right like a
story about the about what i'm about to
do and often i'll sit here and i'll talk
to bob right or i'll talk to my rubber
duck right and i will talk through what
i want my code to do in just plain
english we call this pseudo pseudocode
so eventually next week we're going to
spend a lot of time with pseudocode
you're going to write out in plain plain
language the steps that you want your
code to take
right
so that you can then fill in with the
actual javascript
and early on in your javascript career
you'll write pseudocode and spend a hell
of a lot of time googling stack
overflowing trying to figure out like
what the actual syntax is to solve the
challenge that you have so it's not that
you have to have like all this stuff in
your brain you write out your pseudo
code and then you can look up
how to do that thing
through your research right and the
beautiful thing is if you get good at
pseudo code right some people are like
how do you spell that let me pull it up
real quick for you
pseudocode the cool thing is if you get
good at pseudo code right you can
program in any language
right we're learning javascript but the
skills are transferable most languages
are going to have variables conditionals
functions and loops they might call them
slightly different things but they're
going to have all that same stuff
and if you get good at writing pseudo
code and figuring out how to fill in the
syntax based off of your pseudo code you
can
code in any language so it's a really
powerful skill and the biggest skill
that i want you to have as we start
going through the next couple weeks
we're going to spend a lot of time on it
cool
but let's uh let's jump back to our code
here
all right so we kind of talk through
what's happening in the html we know
there's a form where we need to get
stuff out of this input that has the id
of day we know we have a button that we
need to put a smurf on smurf on so we
can hear the click and we know we want
to eventually put the result like
probably in this h2 or something
cool
so here we go
i have some
pre-written logic here
i have my smurf
i have the ability to get the value
out of the input this is how you get the
value of the input the input had the id
of day
i can get the value out of it so
whatever was put into that input i can
get the value out
what i want you to do is i want you to
take five minutes
and i want you to write some code
look at the conditionals we had in the
slides exclamation point slides and i
want you to say whether it is a class
day
a
boring day sorry a class day a weekend
or a boring day all right put five
minutes on the clock
and you're gonna try
getting this done
music on for you
dig deep you got this get some practice
look at the slides
use your googling
you got this
oh geez the slow jazz
what happened to no typing today you got
got
i'm not too excited thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
whatever whatever day you want
everyone's like i thought you weren't
typing today did y'all put your
keyboards away like they're just stored
away in the closet
yeah god what can i say
got here with the duns
how are you unwinding after class
sessions these days
i i haven't been i've just been i've
been working
people saw me i had it focused at
northeastern channel like one o'clock in
the morning i've been grinding folks
i'll work to get this stuff done
can you repeat the assignment it's to
make this work you're going to write
your conditionals to see if it's a class
day a weekend or a boring day
i get my sleep i don't skip in my sleep
about what you do with the time that you
have awake
about three minutes left folks
you got this dig deep
what's the difference between inner text
and inner html one just puts text one
can put
uh a full bit of html like you can put
like a whole div or a section or a
paragraph yeah
do you have a full time with that job on
top of teaching yeah i teach i teach
during the day too i run uh i help run
another boot camp during the day
a non-profit boot camp for folks of
color
called resilient coders
what's the difference between java and
js they're two different completely
different languages we're actually going
to talk a lot about that
um the first the people that wrote
javascript are like hey what's a popular
language oh java's popular let's call it
ours javascript
i'm lost she can't be lost we're not
we're not here to do anything today
we're here just to be sponges
right all this stuff we're going to go
in deeper
what is typescript you can think of like
typescript as javascript
on the right way
with extra bits and bobs that make it a
little bit easier to be maintainable and
and write cleaner
minute left folks
we learn opp
yeah we'll learn oop
object oriented programming
should we learn typescript along
javascript hell no
learn javascript and then if you want to
pick up typescript you can
30 seconds folks
i prefer functional or oop i think my
brain just works better in oop
i write a lot of functional code but i
think my brain just thinks better
object-oriented
i got my headphones in
alright folks come on back come on back
let's do this thing
we'll go over the homework
and we'll do a raid
come on back come on back let's do this
thing
all right
chill the music here
all right so
we already have it set up with our smurf
all right we already have our smurfs set
up
we have the ability to pull the value
out of the input
right then we just need our conditional
logic so let's just go ahead and put the
conditional that we've seen already we
saw with the with the domino's example
we saw an if
and else if
right and then an else so let's just use
that for here now
we're going to check at first to see if
day
equals what
a equals what
thank you sonia
if day equals
what okay i'm gonna see if day equals
tuesday
or and how do i say or how do i say or
yeah there we go double pipe character
or
day
equals
thursday
cool
uh and if it's day equals tuesday or
thursday we could put it into the dom
like there's a way to put it into the
dom i'm going to let you figure out how
to put it in the doll i'm just going to
use an alert for now i want you as part
of your homework to like put it into the
dom so the user can see it so i'm gonna
say class day
right right i'm gonna say class day is
an alert alert will just be like a
pop-up
right i want you to put it into the into
the dom
all right so if it's not tuesday or
thursday what's the next thing we want
to check
what's the next thing we want to check
hey one check for the weekend so we'll
say day
equals
saturday
or
day equals sunday cool
and if it is we'll just gonna alert
weekend
right
and if it's not tuesday thursday
saturday or sunday what do we want to
alert
exactly
boring
there we go
cool all right let's save this and see
if we got anything working here
all right let's refresh
let's type in tuesday
and click check
boom we got class day nice
let's try
saturday
boom we got the weekend and let's try
monday
all right beautiful we got boring in the
pop-up
cool so it's working
hopefully there's like one problem
that you're probably gonna run into with
the way we have this coded right now
yeah the case sensitive exactly
right
case sensitive exactly so if we were to
come back and we already do this
we get boring what
it says tuesday but we get boring right
we still get boring when we type in
tuesday with a lowercase t because we
look at our code
it's
saying this day equal t cap capitalize t
right
and so we have to make sure
that
our our
day value
right
our day value
matches exactly the string or it won't
be a match it is case sensitive so
part of your homework
is to figure out how to make sure that
this is not case sensitive right so part
of your homework is to make sure that
you can make this not be case sensitive
arya dnv a thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
so due tuesday
a class day
i want you to have this working where it
will work with lowercase capitalized
right uh so it doesn't matter the cases
don't matter
and
i want you to show it in the dom like i
want to see the result on the page right
if we look there is a place for you to
put
if it's class day weekend or boring day
i want you to put it in there so that's
part of the homework make sure that it
works
with all the casing and then make sure
you put it in the
in the actual dom
cool
all right we are going to save
the angry parent simulator and our
temperature converter until next class
we'll save those for next class and
let's talk about the homework
so
next class we're going to go deeper into
javascript right
we're going to go deeper into javascript
what i need you to do as part of your
homework is plan out your networking for
next week
right
what events are you going to
what conferences are you going to how
are you going to meet
two people already in tech that are not
friends and family right remember this
one this week is supposed to be one next
week's supposed to be two so don't wait
until next week to plan out your week in
terms of networking make sure you plan
out your networking now
right next uh you have two different
things i want you to read i want you to
read the javascript.info variables and
at the end there are tasks
right i want you to
set up
i want you to do the tasks that are at
the end of each of those at the end of
the variable section and i need you to
read the function basics i need to do
the task at the end as well right this
is all due tuesday all right i'll do
tuesday plan out your networking do
these two bits of reading do the tasks
that come along with the reading
and then
i want you to go back through all three
of the projects that we've done so far
so you're going to go back to the
youtube picker you're going to go back
to the not so great calculator and
you're going to go back to the what day
it is
i want you to add something to each of
them
right
i want you to add
i want you to add uh
something to each of them
all right i want you to add something to
each of them
all right i want you to for the
youtube background picker i want you to
right i want you to add a different
color
for the
or the
not so great calculator
right but not so great calculator i want
you to add another
like value there i want you to add like
another button like a minus five right
what day is today i want you to make
sure that it works with any casing and i
want you to put the result in the dom
right so you got a lot of stuff that i
want you to add to change to manipulate
but
i want you once you once you've figured
all those things out i want you to
delete all the javascript and do it
again for each assignment
and then i want you once you get it done
delete it again and do it and do it and
so you don't need to peek at the
examples
all right so the point here is to get
that repetition until you don't need to
look at the example and once you no
longer need to look at those examples
you will now have a base of syntax
that's going to carry you into the next
couple of weeks that's already in your
brain
cool
and then the last thing i want you to do
is something nice for yourself this
weekend right so whatever you want to do
for yourself this weekend do something
nice for yourself you deserve it you've
been working hard we're getting into
something that's gonna be a little bit
difficult don't forget the third thing
we manage our frustration we're
consistent and we take care of ourselves
do something special for yourself this
week i'm gonna ask on tuesday what you
did so you better have done something
nice
all right
that's all i want to cover tonight
hopefully you had some fun uh getting
into the basics of javascript
let's go ahead and do a raid
and um after the raid
the weekend is yours have some fun i'm
probably going to go live to test out
the sound stuff before sunday we have
office hours on sunday so come through
we're going to look at some layouts
we're going to have some fun we're gonna
answer some questions so i'll see you
all on sunday and then the rest of y'all
see on tuesday so let's go and do a raid
boom
i'll see you over there
have some fun
have a wonderful rest of your day a
wonderful weekend and it gets way more
exciting from here folks this is just
the beginning of javascript can't wait
to see you
in two to three months with all the
skills that you have let's read